# Hosting and Domains

### Objective

* Understand Domain Names
* Understand Hosting Services


## Domain Names

Domain names are used to identify one or more IP addresses. For example, the domain name microsoft.com represents about a dozen IP addresses. Domain names are used in URLs to identify particular Web pages. For example, in the URL http://www.pcwebopedia.com/index.html, the domain name is pcwebopedia.com.
Every domain name has a suffix that indicates which top level domain (TLD) it belongs to. There are only a limited number of such domains, but they are growing. For example:

gov - Government agencies
edu - Educational institutions
org - Organizations (nonprofit)
mil - Military
com - commercial business
net - Network organizations

Because the Internet is based on IP addresses, not domain names, every Web server requires a Domain Name System (DNS) server to translate domain names into IP addresses.

IP by itself is something like the postal system. It allows you to address a package and drop it in the system. It's a unique address (some set of numbers like 172.16.254.1 (IPv4), and 2001:db8:0:1234:0:567:8:1 (IPv6)), which identifies where your site is ON THE NET.

The only way to register and start using a domain name is to use the services of a domain name registrar (like godaddy, bluehost, etc.). If you want to create a domain name and are not sure if it has already been taken, you can check a whois server that keeps track of all the registered domain names.

http://www.webopedia.com/TERM/D/domain_name.html



## Hosting Services

Once you have a domain purchased, you'll need to HOST the actual files you're using (like index.html, style.css).  Hosting allows users to upload files that could then be accessed over the internet from a different computer, tablet, smart phone or other networked device, by the same user or possibly by other users, after a password or other authentication is provided. Typically, the services allow HTTP access, and sometimes FTP access. 

It's easier and faster to host files with the same service that you've purchased the domain with. I know it seems like they should just COME bundled; like why would someone want to just buy a domain name and NOT have any files hosted there? Well, for users that like a CMS (content management system) like WordPress, it's necessary. WordPress would host the files from their servers and you would need to point your DNS to their nameservers in order for your URL to display THEIR content. 

Confused? Good! A lot of the services you'll be using will have WordPress plugins so you don't have to worry TOO much about it, but just know that there is a way to do it without a plugin. 

Read [https://codex.wordpress.org/Integrating_WordPress_with_Your_Website](https://codex.wordpress.org/Integrating_WordPress_with_Your_Website).


## Let's Try It Out!

This is the part where I ask for your credit card info. The long con is finally paying off!
